# tails-plugins

plugins that are built into the web app

## about plugins

plugins are a way to extend the site experience. there are different categoeries, but there will probably be a single api to use all of them at once. idealy, we'll encapsulate a plugin runtime for each component (for the web), for maximum flexibility, everything is still hazy though

## style (tails-web)

these plugins only modify the styles, so the css of the website. idealy, the api will be a simple abstraction over the `behavior` plugin, since any styling will be incapsulated in web components controlled via javascript

## behavior (tails-web)

these plugins modify the behavior of particular elements. not only does this include injecting

theoretically, you could use any javascript framework create a plugin on the assumption they have web components as a compilation target, but that doesn't come without performance penalties

you would want to configure your bundler to disable code splitting, but have separate vendor chunks for assets that the tails web app already includes within the runtime. for example, vue, react, and lit-html should, and will be accessable globally for all plugins, so you should create separate vendor chunks, in addition to creating a bundle.js. that way, we can have tails only consume the bundle.js. this means you would have to keep your library updated with the latest versions of vue, react, or whatever you are using. (i don't think we'll be bundling vuex, mobx, redux etc. because that's not something we think a plugin should leverage)

the bundler config generated by the cli [wip] should provide this out of the box

## behavior (tails-server)

this part of plugins will run initially on the server and setup responses to graphql queries, events (like if a project has been created), and probably other stuff that i can't think of right now

## extraneous

maybe someway to automatically control settings of these plugins via cli (which would also be available via web interface). the simple disable plugin and plugin permissions commands should probably be first
